Update terminologies in the updated v6 docs - Closes 1658 (#1675)
LiskHQ/lisk-docs: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/glossary.adoc

//TODO: Add link back, once the codec-schema page is updated
//Further details regarding other address formats can be seen here in the xref:{url_data_structure}[table for different data types] on the schema reference page.

=== Active validator

An active validator, can mostly be considered as an entity, that can generate new blocks for the Lisk sidechain.

> A total of 101 validators exist in a Lisk sidechain for this purpose, and each validator is ranked from 1-101.

Author: ```suggestion
A total of 101 active validators exist on the Lisk Mainchain for this purpose, and each validator is ranked from 1-101.
Additionally, two random validators are selected for each round of block generation, resulting in 103 active validators per round on the Lisk Mainnet.
```

> A total of 101 validators exist in a Lisk sidechain for this purpose, and each validator is ranked from 1-101.

Author: ```suggestion
A total of 101 active validators exist on the Lisk Mainchain for this purpose, and each validator is ranked from 1-101.
Additionally, two random validators are selected for each round of block generation, resulting in 103 active validators per round on the Lisk Mainnet.
```

//TODO: Add link back, once the codec-schema page is updated
//Further details regarding other address formats can be seen here in the xref:{url_data_structure}[table for different data types] on the schema reference page.

=== Active validator

> An active validator is an account that registered as validator and can generate new blocks in the next block generation round for the Lisk mainchain, or for a sidechain with DPoS as validator selection algorithm.

Author: ```suggestion
An active validator is an account registered as a validator. It can generate new blocks in the next block generation round for the Lisk mainchain, or for a sidechain with PoS as a validator selection algorithm.
```

This particular proposal describes the mnemonic code or mnemonic sentence implementation,
and how to create a human-readable mnemonic sentence including how to convert that mnemonic into a seed.

=== Block assets
The block assets contain data created by individual modules.
This consists of an array of bytes, whereby each value corresponds to an object serialized according to the `assetSchema` property.
The block assets, together with the transactions, form the block payload.

=== Blockchain application
Refers to a software that has a blockchain client, a middleware, and a UI.

=== Blockchain client
Refers to software that runs a blockchain node (ex: Ethereum client, bitcoin client, light client, etc).

=== Blockchain generation hooks

Block generation hooks can add information to the block assets, but cannot introduce any state changes.
These are module methods that are called during the actual block generation.

=== Blockchain node

> Refers to an instance of a blockchain client that is connected to other computers/nodes in a decentralized network of nodes/computers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refers to an instance of a blockchain client that is connected to other nodes in a decentralized network.```

Author: ```suggestion
Refers to an instance of a blockchain client that is connected to other nodes in a decentralized network.
```

=== Forge

How generators produce blocks on the sidechain.

> Analog to "forge" the term "generate" is also used within Lisk documentation.

Reviewer 2: This is outdated and can be removed

> === Framework plugin

Reviewer 2: Is this official terminology?

Author: I am not sure, maybe @chris529 can guide.

A self-contained, off-chain component that extends the standard feature set of the Lisk SDK by a specific use case, e.g. a node monitor plugin, etc.
Typically there is no state change on the sidechain.

== G

=== Generator

> A generator can mostly be considered as a forging generator, which can forge new blocks for the Lisk sidechain. Rank 1-101.

Reviewer 2: Please remove, we use the term validator instead

=== Lisk SDK

> The Lisk SDK is an open-source software development kit which enables developers to easily build scalable sidechains using JavaScript & Typescript.

Reviewer 2: Please add a link to the SDK docs

Author: Link to this page: https://liskhq.github.io/lisk-docs/lisk-sdk/index.html ?

=== Module

A module enables a sidechain to have client-specific on-chain logic.
Modules can perform state changes on the related sidechain.
For example, the Lisk SDK modules can define state machine and block generation hooks.
They can also define commands to add the related logic to the state machine.

=== Module endpoint

> Module endpoints enable data to be retrieved from a sidechain.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Module endpoints enable external services to retrieve data from a sidechain.
```

> Module endpoints enable data to be retrieved from a sidechain.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Module endpoints enable external services to retrieve data from a sidechain.
```

=== Nonce

A nonce is an abbreviation for "number only used once" and is a random number that can only be used one time.

> In the Lisk network, it can be defined as an integer that represents the number of outgoing transactions of an account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the Lisk protocol, it can be defined as an integer that represents the number of outgoing transactions of an account.
```

The SDK module that implements a PoA chain.

> === reportMisbehavior

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=== ReportMisbehavior transaction
```

Reviewer 2: Please move this to letter R

This transaction contains the information necessary to prove that a validator has breached the BFT protocol.
A block cannot contain two misbehavior alerts for the same block-generating validator.
In practice, this means that a validator cannot be punished twice in one block.

> Finally, a reward is added to the account sending the reportMisbehavior transaction.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
//TODO: Add link to PoS module reference
Finally, a reward is added to the account sending the reportMisbehavior transaction.
```

> === Proof of misbehavior - PoM

Reviewer: Proof of misbehavior is now "reportMisbehavior"

This transaction contains the information necessary to prove that a validator has breached the BFT protocol.

> A block cannot contain two PoMs with the same block generating validator.

Reviewer: PoM -> reportMisbehavior

In practice, this means that a validator cannot be punished twice in one block.

> Finally, a reward is added to the account sending the PoM.

Reviewer: PoM -> reportMisbehavior

=== PoS - Proof of stake

Proof of stake mechanism uses an algorithm designed to select users that have the highest stakes as validators. 
The highest stakeholders are expected to have a high motivation to keep the network secure and healthy, as users with the highest amount of tokens or coins have the most to lose, if something goes wrong in the network.

> It is part of the consensus algorithm of a sidechain and is used on Lisk Mainnet and in the Lisk SDK.

Reviewer 2: Lisk PoS is not a pure PoS algorithm, actually it is a hybrid of DPoS and PoS, imho we should emphasize this in the docs

An additional passphrase used as a voluntary, second level of security.

=== Self stake

A self stake is a vote that a validator casts for themselves. Self stakes are always at least 10% of the validator weight.

=== Sending chain ID

The property in a cross-chain message identifying from which chain the message was sent.

=== Sidechain

A sidechain is a blockchain that follows the Lisk protocol and is registered on the Lisk mainchain.

=== Sidechain application
Refers to a software that contains a lisk based <<sidechain-client>>, a middleware and a UI.

=== sApp
Abbreviation of sidechain application.

=== Sidechain client

A xref:{url_blockchain_app}[sidechain client] refers to software that runs a sidechain node, and that follows the Lisk protocol. For example, this can be an application running on its own sidechain built with the Lisk SDK.

> === Standby validator

Author: The current definitions in the terminology sheet are as follows:

<img width="487" alt="Screenshot 2022-12-31 at 11 47 01 AM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/13951043/210127984-8542979d-98a1-4d6c-aaec-12836f4242e3.png">

We can add the new term: `inactive validator` if required. I think @vjaiman can add further to this conversation.

> === Standby validator

Reviewer: In the LIPs, we don't have separate term for the standby validator who doesn't get selected in a round. I would keep the same terminology for the alignment.

> === Standby validator

Reviewer 2: @vjaiman what definition do you have in the LIPs for standby delegates? 

When I look at the definitions that Talha posted, I can see they are not fitting for every registered validator who is not active.

For me, it makes sense to distinguish them in our documentation for the following reason (not sure if it would be beneficial in the LIPs as well):

If we follow the definition for standby delegates in the terminology sheet as @TalhaMaliktz posted, it is only applying to the delegates who are considered by the random selection algorithm.
Banned delegates or delegates who don't have enough self-votes would be excluded from that definition.

By registering a delegate, you don't automatically get considered by the algorithm that chooses the two random delegates each round. That means there is a group of delegates that has the opportunity to forge blocks each round, and another group of delegates, who will never be allowed to forge a block. 
To explain this difference, I think it would be very beneficial to have different terms for the two groups.

An additional passphrase used as a voluntary, second level of security.

=== Self stake

A self stake is a vote that a validator casts for themselves. Self stakes are always at least 10% of the validator weight.

=== Sending chain ID

The property in a cross-chain message identifying from which chain the message was sent.

=== Sidechain

A sidechain is a blockchain that follows the Lisk protocol and is registered on the Lisk mainchain.

=== Sidechain application
Refers to a software that contains a lisk based <<sidechain-client>>, a middleware and a UI.

=== sApp
Abbreviation of sidechain application.

=== Sidechain client

A xref:{url_blockchain_app}[sidechain client] refers to software that runs a sidechain node, and that follows the Lisk protocol. For example, this can be an application running on its own sidechain built with the Lisk SDK.

=== Standby validator

> A standby validator is classed as a validator that is not able to generate new blocks for the Lisk blockchain, as each validator is not an <<active-validator>>.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A standby validator, or inactive validator, is classed as a validator that does not have the sufficient validator weight and therefore is not eligible to generate new blocks. A standby validator can become an <<active-validator>> if their <<validator-weight>> increases.
```

> Rank 1~102.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> Rank 1~102.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

=== Token transfer transaction

A transaction type that transfers tokens from one account to another one.
A xref:{url_token_transfer}[Token transfer] transaction will transfer the number of tokens specified in the amount property, from the sender of the transaction to the specified recipient.

=== Token unlock

A transaction type on all networks based on the Lisk protocol which unlocks the token used for staking.

> === Total stakes received

Reviewer 2: The term here doesn't seem right, what is explained below is basically the `validator weight`. But also the explanation leaves room to improve, so imho i would remove this completely from the glossary.

Author: I have removed the word "received" to make it correct. The terminology should stay as the last line differentiates between `total stakes` and `validator weight`.

> However, it should be noted that as the validator stake will be capped by the self-stake, the total stakes might not be equal to the validator weight.

// It allows any chain in the ecosystem to handle and transfer tokens in a coherent, secure, and controlled manner.
// Furthermore, the token module is composed of a state store definition that is used to store tokens in the state.

=== Token transfer

A transaction type on all networks based on the Lisk protocol which transfers fungible tokens (e.g. LSK), within one chain.

=== Token transfer transaction

A transaction type that transfers tokens from one account to another one.
A xref:{url_token_transfer}[Token transfer] transaction will transfer the number of tokens specified in the amount property, from the sender of the transaction to the specified recipient.

=== Token unlock

A transaction type on all networks based on the Lisk protocol which unlocks the token used for staking.

> === Total stakes

Reviewer 2: OK, I see now the difference between delegate weight. But, to avoid confusion, please remove this terminology from the glossary. We normally only refer to the delegate weight, and it is not really a terminology of its' own imho.

In particular, it verifies that a validator is eligible for generating a block in a certain block slot and the validity of the block signature.
Furthermore, the Validators module store maintains an account for each validator that is registered in the chain.

> === Validator registration transaction

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=== RegisterValidator transaction
```

Please move under the letter `R`, too.

Also, please check the other transaction names with the actual implementation, it should match the corresponding command name.

> A xref:{url_delegate_registration}[validator's registration] is achieved by sending a xref:{url_delegate_registration_tx}[validator registration transaction] on the mainnet, which registers a validator to participate in the Proof-of-Stake consensus algorithm.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To be able to participate in the block generation process, an account needs to register as a validator in the network.
//TODO: Add link to related guide how to register a validator, once it is updated.
//TODO: Add link to the PoS module reference
The registration process is performed by posting a validator registration transaction to the network.
```

=== Validator misbehavior report

> A transaction type on the mainnet which reports a validator's misbehavior.

Reviewer 2: Please remove, duplicate of `ReportMisbehavior` above

> === Validator vote

Reviewer: vote -> stake

> A transaction type on the mainnet which submits votes for validators for staking purposes.

Reviewer: votes -> stakes

If the votes are positive it adds the voting weight, if they are negative it removes the voting weight again.
If voting weight was added, the corresponding LSK tokens are locked and cannot be used for any other transaction.

=== Validator weight

The weight of validators in PoS determines whether a validator is active, on standby, or not eligible to generate blocks.

> It is computed from the self-votes and the total amount of received votes.

Reviewer: There is no self-votes/votes in updated terminology.
self-voters -> self-stakes
votes -> stakes

// The delegate weight is an indicator which shows the active support received by a delegate that is present in the network. To maintain a secure and effective setup, the delegate weight is bound to 10 times the self-votes.
// The weight of a delegate is the sum of all votes for a particular delegate that includes self-votes.

=== Stake validator transaction

Accounts can vote for validators by sending a vote validator transaction.
The tokens used to vote for validators will be locked, although the locked tokens can be unlocked again if required, by unvoting the validator again.

> The weight of a validator will determine the sum of all votes for this validator.

Reviewer: votes -> stakes

=== Stakers

> A user deploying their LSK to stake for their favourite validators.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A user deploying their LSK to <<un-staking, stake>> for their favorite validators.
```

=== Validator misbehavior report

A transaction type on the mainnet which reports a validator's misbehavior.

=== Validator vote

A transaction type on the mainnet which submits votes for validators for staking purposes.
If the votes are positive it adds the voting weight, if they are negative it removes the voting weight again.
If voting weight was added, the corresponding LSK tokens are locked and cannot be used for any other transaction.

=== Validator weight

The weight of validators in PoS determines whether a validator is active, on standby, or not eligible to generate blocks.
It is computed from the self-votes and the total amount of received votes.
// The delegate weight is an indicator which shows the active support received by a delegate that is present in the network. To maintain a secure and effective setup, the delegate weight is bound to 10 times the self-votes.
// The weight of a delegate is the sum of all votes for a particular delegate that includes self-votes.

> === Stake validator transaction

Reviewer 2: Is this the real name of the transaction/command?

Author: I think so!
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1KGcug-YQiookwVlOBula7eDVgpCMIfBjsfSLMdSNRhI/edit#gid=0
